If you're not familiar with H2, it is an open source database written in Java.
It is an in‑memory database,
which means that data is stored in memory and will not persist to the disk.
Now H2 is not recommended for production environments,
but it is good for POCs, dev environments, and
projects that need a simple database.
The nice thing is that H2 can be easily integrated with Spring. H2 provides
you with an administrative tool called the H2 console,
and you will work with it through a web browser.
We will dig in a bit more with the H2 console in the next module.
The first step is to include the H2 dependency in the Maven POM file.
Thanks to auto configuration, since we are adding H2 as a dependency,
Spring Boot knows that in this project we will be connecting to
the H2 database, so it auto configures H2 related properties like
the database URL, username, password, etc.
These are the defaults.
So for the data source name, it's testdb. For the Driver class,
it's the org.h2.Driver.
The default username is sa. There is no default password,
and the Spring H2 console is disabled.
I'm overriding H2's default configurations in the application.properties file.
The most important thing I'm doing is enabling the H2
console and setting the path to H2. I've also changed the database name to bugtracker.